-*- encoding: utf-8; indent-tabs-mode: nil -*-

=encoding utf8

=head1 SCANS OF THE ORIGINAL LISTINGS

=head2 8 December 1983

Files F<a>I<nnn>F<-nb.png>.

Beware, although these are black-and-white files, you cannot use them directly for the char
recognition app. Actually, they are 1-bit grayscale files and they must be converted to B&W
files by C<conv_nb>.

One missing line between F<a003-nb.png> and F<a004-nb.png>, just a C<end;>.

One missing line between F<a005-bn.png> and F<a006-nb.png>, the error message on the date.

In F<a006-nb.png>, two hand-written  notes overlap the end value of a  loop. The first loop ends
with a printed C<11>  overwritten with a "13".  The second loops ends  with a printed C<11> that
was overwritten with a "13" which was itself  overwritten with a "11". In both cases I have kept
the original printed values, C<11>.

=head2 12 December 1983

Files F<ab>I<nnn>F<-coul.png>

I had the intention not to scan the  12th december listing and instead, building the source file
with much copying-pasting from the 8th December and 10th January source files. And I did so. But
I thought it  was interesting to provide the  scans to show where the 12th  December source file
comes from.

Yet, the  files are  meant to  be looked  at, they are  not meant  to be  processed by  the char
recognition program. The files  have been scanned with a 96 dpi  resolution, which is much lower
than the resolution used for the three other listings, 300 dpi.

F<ab001_coul.png> begins with a  work session under Unix. In the lower  part, the version number
is identical to  the 8th December version, but  overwritten with the version number  of the 10th
January. The  printed date  can be  read as 12th  December, so  I used this  date for  the whole
listing.

F<ab004_coul.png>: truncated line C<< <=30); >>

F<ab005_coul.png>: another truncated line, with only a semi-colon missing.

F<ab006_coul.png>:  several truncated  lines. But  actually we  do not  care, since  we  work by
copying-pasting lines from the 8th December and 10th January versions.

F<ab007_coul.png>: the hand-written fixes still allow  the original printed version to be easily
read.

=head2 10 January 1984

Files F<b>I<nnn>F<-coul.png>

From the beginning, my  intention was to scan in colors and then  to convert the resulting files
into black and white. C<conv_nb> has been developped exactly for this purpose.

=head2 19 January 1984

Files F<c>I<nnn>F<_nb.png> as well as F<c0065.png>

It seems that these files were directly scanned in black & white, not in 1-bit grayscale so they
did not need to be converted to B&W by C<conv_nb>.

Since there is a gap of 20 lines  or so between F<c006_nb.png> and F<c007_nb.png>, I took a file
from a previous scan session to fill the gap.

A general problem for this listing is that on each page, the first line is blotched by the paper
fold.  So, even  if this  line exists  in the  file, I  exclude it  from the  part that  will be
processed by  the recognition  program and I  wait for  the text editor  step to  copy-paste the
missing line from the 10th January source file.

F<c002_nb.png>: lines 76, 80,  86 and 88 are truncated and must be  fixed during the text editor
step.

F<c003.png>: lines 131 and 142 have been truncated.

Most hand-written fixes in these files allow  the original printed version to be easily read. At
the bottom of F<c006_nb.png> and at the top of F<c0065.png>, a typo was fixed: "1983" instead of
C<1982>.  I have kept  the printed  value, even  if wrong.  Just below  in F<c0065.png>,  I have
hand-written "HTAB"  to replace  a normal  space by  a tabulation. But  I did  not take  it into
account 34 years later, since I now prefer spaces.

=head1 LICENSE

The programs  are licensed under the  same terms as Perl  5: GPL and Artistic  License. For more
details, please read the F<LICENSE> file in this repository.
