-*- encoding: utf-8; indent-tabs-mode: nil -*-

=encoding utf8

=head1 CHECKING THE FRENCH REVOLUTIONARY CALENDAR

=head2 PURPOSE

The  C<calfr> program  may run  in I<dialog>  mode. Actually,  back in
1983-1984,  I  did  not   understand  the  concepts  of  C<stdin>  and
C<stdout>. Since then  I have understood them and I  use them for bulk
testing the conversion program.

=head2 FILES

To  check  the  conversions  from  French  Revolutionary  calendar  to
Gregorian, I use the following files:

=over 4

=item *

F<entree-rep> a series  of C<2> conversion commands and  of dates such
as C<18 2 8> (for 18 Brumaire VIII)

=item *

F<sortie-greg-arith>  the expected  result of  the conversions,  using
Romme's arithmetic rule.

=item *

F<sortie-greg-equi> the expected result  of the conversions, using the
astronomical rule with autumn equinoxes.

=item *

F<sortie-greg-histo> the expected result  of the conversions, using the
historical rule (autumn equinoxes until XIX, arithmetic from XX on).

=back

For the backward conversion from  Gregorian to French Revolutionary, I
use:

=over 4

=item *

F<entree-greg> a series of C<3>  conversion commands and of dates such
as C<22 9 1792>

=item *

F<sortie-rep-arith>  the expected  result  of  the conversions,  using
Romme's arithmetic rule.

=item *

F<sortie-rep-equi> the  expected result of the  conversions, using the
astronomical rule with autumn equinoxes.

=item *

F<sortie-rep-histo> the  expected result of the  conversions, using the
historical rule (autumn equinoxes until XIX, arithmetic from XX on).

=back

For  an exhaustive  checking of  the equinox  rule computation  of 1st
Vendémiaire, I use:

=over 4

=item *

F<entree-astro-gr> and F<sortie-astro-gr> to check the conversion from
Gregorian calendar to French Revolutionary calendar.

=item *

F<entree-astro-rg> and F<sortie-astro-rg> to check the conversion from
French Revolutionary calendar to Gregorian calendar.

=back


In addition to the date results, the expected output files contain the
prompt messages from the dialog mode.

=head2 ORIGIN

At first, the files were "hand-typed". Then they have been generated
by the C<gen-tests> and C<gen-astro-tests> programs from the L<utility
repository|https://github.com/jforget/French-Revolution-calendar-utilities>.

